well the head of the UN Agency for
Palestinian refugees says that the
situation has quote reached a Breaking
Point Israel has accused several unra
workers of directly participating in the
October 7th Terror attacks the UN
responded by launching a probe into
those allegations the head of the UN
agency says that the accusations have
caused 16 major donor countries to
suspend $450 Million worth of funding
that could severely hamper operations in
Gaza as soon as next month a recent us
Intel report said that some of the
accusations were credible but could not
be independently verified while also C
casting doubt on claims of wider links
to militant
groups let's get more on this we are
joined Now by Tamara alifi she is a
director of communications at the unra
the United Nations relief and works
Agency for Palestinian refugees thank
you so much for your time this afternoon
um tell us a little bit more about the
agency's current capabilities on the
ground to provide humanitarian
assistance to civilians in
Gaza if we're talking about Gaza in
particular the agency is stretched to
the max because of the ongoing uh
fighting and hostilities and air bombing
and our very restricted access to most
of the Gaza Strip and the concentration
of people 1.5 5 million people in RAF
today at the southernmost uh tip of the
Gaza Strip and also because of the
restrictions on humanitarian Assistance
or Aid trucks food trucks coming in but
the bigger picture is a b is a picture
of a lot of um political and financial
pressure on unwa that affects its
ability to continue working not only in
Gaza but also in the West Bank including
East Jerusalem Syria Lebanon and Jordan
where we run 700 schools for half a
million children 140 medical centers and
many more programs that are today at
risk can you put that into context for
us because um you know we've heard um
from your director about how serious the
funding crisis is what is the real world
impact on the cuts that you are
experiencing on on the civilians who are
on the
ground we're experiencing to date a free
ing of funding that affects almost half
of our budget requirements for this year
in numbers this means that maybe already
at the end of March beginning of April
half a million girls and boys who go to
700 unra schools may not be able to
continue learning it also means that if
we don't get the funding back 2 million
patients all Palestine refugees
who get up to 8 million medical
consultations per year in our 140 Health
Centers might not be able to get their
medicines for diabetes high blood
pressure and other long-term diseases
but mostly it means that more than more
like almost the entire population in
Gaza that today relies on Ona's food
distribution and shelters might no
longer be able to rely on unra if we
cannot continue our operations so I'd
like to ask you a little bit more now on
the background as to why these funding
cuts are happening you know we have
these allegations from Israel that Hamas
has infiltrated unra uh Israel has named
a number of employees that it says were
involved in the October 7th attacks um
it's a shadow over your agency's
reputation and it is not the first time
that the agency has faced
criticism how are you you and how can
you regain the trust of donor
Nations let us start by saying that many
many donors and governments still trust
unra and still trust our ability to
deliver uh humanitarian assistance in
Gaza and schooling and other services
everywhere 16 donors decided to suspend
their funding to the agency on the basis
of allegations allegation is the
operative term here every agency every
workplace every Bank every institution
every media institution May face
allegations of corruption mistrust uh or
even criminality there is a very serious
investigation going on commissioned by
the UN Secretary General Mr Antonio
gutieres the allegations are around 12
staff members out of a staff core of
30,000 30 30,000 and we are facing
allegations against 12 every allegation
is extremely serious but we cannot jump
to conclusions before an investigation
is over and when the investigation
concludes then there are sanctions
against those who are credibly believed
to be implicated for now we already
terminated their contracts we already
have an investigation and we even have
an internal review of all our rules and
regulations related to staff Behavior
here by three credible
yeah oh sorry I didn't want to interrupt
you there but um my understanding is
that Israel has actually named
additional names since then in addition
to those 12 that that you have mentioned
what more can you tell us about the un's
investigation into these allegations and
the sort of timetable on which it is
going to happen um and the circumstances
under which you're going to get to the
bottom of this especially considering
that right now you are operating in a
war zone in Gaza
I actually want to say that Israel
shared with unra 12 names that is all
Israel has shared with us no evidence no
circumstances no details nothing
everything else we've been hearing from
the news like the rest of the world so
we have not been in the possession of
any evidence but in all cases our call
is to Israel or to any entity that
claims to have information to submit it
to the investigation the investigation
is ongoing it's the highest the most
authoritative investigating body of the
UN from our headquarters in New York the
the uh Secretary General of the UN
promised a preliminary interim report
within a month of the be of the
beginning of the investigation so early
March having said that we at unwa are
looking forward to not only the results
of the investigation but also the um
recommen the recommendations to improve
our own internal systems tomorrow refi
unfortunately we have to leave it there
we've run out of time but we thank you
so much uh for joining us to share that
perspective and um to share the view of
of what your organization how you are
proceeding and what you're currently
going through with uh the current
circumstances we appreciate
it